It’s 2022. As modern an era as it can get. Never before has life been so chaotic, challenging, and quick-moving. On one hand, modern life stands on the pinnacle of comfort and happiness; on the other, it is fraught with the many tensions and anxieties that come with advancement. For some, it might be the generic tensions encompassing life such as rent, utility bills, work, etc., and for others, the traffic and stress of living in big cities. Stress as a word is uttered so commonly nowadays that it seems to be the common denominator for everyone. Somewhere down the line, one may wonder what stress actually means. With everyone speculating definitions of their own, it is important to bring forward a proper definition. Stress is defined as “A psychological and physical response of the body that occurs whenever we must adapt to changing conditions, whether those conditions be real or perceived, positive or negative.” (“Stress Definition | Psychology Glossary | Alleydog.Com”). Stress in high doses not only has negative effects on health physically but also psychologically. While it is commonly known what extra stress does to the body physically, it is astounding how so many people are clueless about its effect on a person’s mental health, and the ones who do know are not willing to empathize with others having the problem. As the human brain is the control center of the body, it is involved in making decisions and sending instructions to the body, as well as coordinating many functions of the body. Keeping this in mind, it is crucial for people to know more about mental health, and mental disorders, and learn what steps society can take to do away with the stigma surrounding mental health because with time, the menace of suicide has gradually found its way into the society and the lack of awareness of people is to blame. Thus, the aim of this informative paper is to explain mental health, mental disorders, and society’s role.

So, what is Mental Health, and Why it is Important?
The subject of mental health has long been an object of study for sociology, the psychiatric professions, and society, each of them striving to offer theoretical insights into this topic.

Mental health is defined as “a state of well-being in which every individual realizes his or her own potential, can cope with the normal stresses of life, can work productively and fruitfully, and is able to make a contribution to his or her community” (“WHO | Mental Health: A State of Well-Being”). It’s our feelings, our thinking, our emotions, and our moods. As mentioned previously, the brain is the command center of the body. It is responsible for a majority of things like regulating blood pressure and breathing, releasing hormones, problem-solving, judgment, planning, reading, memory, managing emotions, etc. Imagine how these functions will be managed if the brain is unhealthy? For this reason, mental health is one of the greatest assets. It not only helps you focus, overcome obstacles in life, gets along with the people around you, but also stay well. One doesn’t need to have a mental illness to pay attention to their mental well-being. Everyone knows how to look after their physical health. Upon asking how, you’ll receive responses such as: “Drink a lot of water”, “Eat fruits and vegetables”, or something like “Do lots of exercises”. In contrast, not many people know how to take care of their mental health, mainly because of the stigma surrounding mental health, and its lack of awareness.

However, too much stress can seriously affect mental well-being. Recurrent psychological stress can diminish self-esteem, decrease interpersonal and academic effectiveness, and create a cycle of self-blame and self-doubt. Long-term stress can harm your health. contribute to serious health problems, such as heart disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, and other illnesses, as well as mental disorders like depression or anxiety (“NIMH » 5 Things You Should Know About Stress”).

In contemporary society, the terms ‘depression’, ‘anxiety’, and ‘bipolar’ are as common as sawdust around a sawmill. Social media users encounter these terms on a day-to-day basis, seeing Instagram posts like “I’ve lived with depression on and off since I was 14 years old…” or coming across something like ‘I want to leave this world…”. One can’t help but wonder if words like ‘depression’ or ‘anxiety’ are used expressively or if these people actually have a mental disorder. Therefore, it is vital to know what mental disorders actually are. A mental illness is “a condition that affects a person’s thinking, feeling or mood. Such conditions may affect someone’s ability to relate to others and function each day. A mental health condition isn’t the result of one event. Research suggests multiple overlapping causes. Genetics, environment, and lifestyle influence whether someone develops a mental health condition. A stressful job or home life makes some people more susceptible, as do traumatic life events like being the victim of a crime. Biochemical processes and circuits and basic brain structure may play a role, too.” (“Mental Health Conditions | NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness”). Statistics show that in 2018, an estimated 47.6 million adults aged 18 or older (19.1 percent) had any mental illness (AMI) in the past year. An estimated 11.4 million adults in the nation had a serious mental illness (SMI) in the past year, corresponding to 4.6 percent of all U.S. adults. (Lipari and Eunice 2).

Examples of mental illness include depression, anxiety disorders, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, ADHD, eating disorders, and addictive behaviors. Conditions such as Anxiety disorders, Major Depressive Episodes, and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder have been recorded as the most prevalent among US adults. (“Mental Health By the Numbers | NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness”).